---
layout: post
title: Teach me
---

I feel like I don't learn a lot lately. Not the practical stuff like linear algebra and coding, that stuff is endless and is of course always available. I'm talking about the humanities, the new ideas. It seems the world was once flushed with that stuff: feminism, neoliberalism, gay rights, the end of history. Did the end of history come already, and no one talks about it?

I can open up The Guardian or The Economist and almost know exactly what they are going to say from the titles alone. Of course X is bad and Y is good, we have all decided on that long ago, and yet we keep recycling the same old archetypal stories. What if there are indeed so few essential truths, that newspapers like the New York Times have to make up hot stories for the legions of armchair commenters like me on the Internet to dive in and argue about what are ultimately quite old and pointless and decided? Where are all the new ideas? Where are the PhDs of the world, why aren't they surprising the rest of us with their brilliant minds? Why have they forsaken us, retreating to their ivory towers and gently whisper "revise and resubmit" into each other ears instead of shouting from a megaphone in the streets? The hunger for new ideas is there; lockdowns enable a willing audience with seemingly endless amount of attention, and yet why do so few take the opportunity to shine on the soapbox?

Maybe we should stop reading a certain newspaper once we found ourselves agreeing with 80-90% of what they say. Reading more of the same isn't going to teach you anything new, and isn't good for the diffusion of knowledge in the world. There's a reason why 5 a day means 5 different fruits and vegetables and not a shit load of grapes. We should be brave enough to say "thank you, next" to the newspapers we read, and move on to the next new outlet once we've learnt what we can from our current favourite newspaper. Loyalty to a newspaper should be like to an employer, not to a lover. Be a news-hopper. And then newspapers would have the incentive to trade journalists like footballers to ensure the game stays exciting & fresh.